Create rule S6891: Avoid the usage of exact Alarms on mobile apps (#3579)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6891/java/rule.adoc

> The `AlarmManager` class allows to schedule your app to run at a future time, even when it's not active.

Reviewer: I would use a bit different wording here:
```suggestion
The `AlarmManager` class provides access to the system alarm services. It allows you to schedule your application to run at some point in the future, even when it's not active.
```

> For normal timing operations, such as  ticks and timeouts, using the `Handler` is more efficient.

Reviewer: Extra space:
```suggestion
For normal timing operations, such as ticks and timeouts, using the `Handler` is more efficient.
```

> From API 19 onwards, the alarm delivery is inexact to save battery life.

Reviewer: For me, this gives more clarity.
```suggestion
From API 19 onwards, the alarm delivery is inexact in order to save battery life.
 ```

The Android OS now batches together alarms from all apps that occur at reasonably similar times
so the system wakes the device once instead of several times to handle each alarm.

It is possible to use exact alarms with `setExact`, `setExactAndAllowWhileIdle`, `setWindow` and `setAlarmClock`.
The usage of those methods should be limited only to cases when strict delivery guarantees are required,
such as an alarm clock application or calendar notification.

> The rule raises an issue when an exact alarm is set, or when a window is set to less than 10 minutes.

Reviewer: Just curious, how did you come up with 10 minute intervals?

Reviewer 2: It is mentioned in the documentation for [setWindow](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/AlarmManager#setWindow(int,%20long,%20long,%20android.app.PendingIntent))

== Why is this an issue?

> When the system triggers exact alarms that your app sets, the device consumes a great deal of resources, such as battery life,

Reviewer: This seems a bit odd.
I would choose either `such as battery life` or `especially if it's in a power-saving mode`.

especially if it's in a power-saving mode. Furthermore, the system cannot easily batch these requests in order to use resources more efficiently.

It's highly recommended that you create an inexact alarm whenever possible.
To perform longer work, schedule it using `WorkManager` or `JobScheduler` from your alarm's `BroadcastReceiver`.

=== What is the potential impact?

* _Usability_: the device may run out of battery faster than expected.

> * _Sustainability_: the extra battery usage has an impact on the environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _Sustainability_: the extra battery usage has a negative impact on the environment.
```

        alarmManager.setExact(AlarmManager.RTC_WAKEUP, triggerTime, pendingIntent); // Noncompliant, avoid using exact alarms unless necessary
        alarmManager.setExactAndAllowWhileIdle(AlarmManager.RTC_WAKEUP, triggerTime, pendingIntent); // Noncompliant, avoid using exact alarms unless necessary

        long windowLengthMillis = 5 * 60 * 1000; // 5 minutes in milliseconds
        alarmManager.setWindow(AlarmManager.RTC_WAKEUP, triggerTime, windowLengthMillis, pendingIntent); // Noncompliant, don't use windows below 10 minutes
    }
}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,java,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
public class AlarmScheduler {
    private Context context;

    public AlarmScheduler(Context context) {
        this.context = context;
    }

    public void scheduleAlarm(long triggerTime) {
        AlarmManager alarmManager = (AlarmManager) context.getSystemService(Context.ALARM_SERVICE);
        Intent intent = new Intent(context, AlarmReceiver.class);
        PendingIntent pendingIntent = PendingIntent.getBroadcast(context, 0, intent, 0);

        alarmManager.set(AlarmManager.RTC_WAKEUP, triggerTime, pendingIntent);

>         alarmManager.setAndAllowWhileIdle(AlarmManager.RTC_WAKEUP, triggerTime, pendingIntent);

Reviewer: Let's add // Compliant comment here
And maybe a compliant example of `setWindow`

Reviewer 2: The compliant example for the setWindow is tricky since it's odd to come up with a window interval. So I was just considering to not proposing anything. What do you think?
